
# Color-Based Pathfinding Visualization on AI-Generated Images

## Description
This project is an interactive tool developed in Python to visualize various pathfinding algorithms on user-loaded images. The application allows users to select start and end points on an image and observe how different algorithms navigate to find the shortest path. The visualization displays the path found as a blue line and the explored pixels as negative colors.

## Key Features
- Load any image for pathfinding visualization.
- Select starting and ending points directly on the image.
- Choose from multiple pathfinding algorithms, including Dijkstra, A*, Floyd-Warshall, and Bellman-Ford.
- Visualize the path as a blue line and explored pixels in negative colors.
- Automatically calculate cost based on several distance metrics between pixels (Euclidean, Manhattan, Chebyshev distances, etc.).

## Installation

To set up the project, follow these steps:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/monthenry/Pathfinding-Visualizer.git
cd pathfinding-visualization
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

To run the application:

```bash
python main.py
```

Follow the GUI prompts to load an image, click where you want on the image to add starting and ending points, and choose an algorithm for visualization.

## Contributors
- Henry Marie MONT
- Julian Rene LECLERC
- Maxence Alain ROUCHOU

## Results

The tool has been tested on various types of images, including homework material, mazes, city maps generated by DALL-E, and AI-generated patterns and landscapes. The results show functional pathfinding with interesting visual outcomes.
